Hub

Hub is operated on Physical layer of OSI model.
Hub is a broadcast type transmission.
Hub have 4/12 ports.
In hub, there is only one collision domain.
Hub is a half duplex transmission mode.
In hub, Packet filtering is not provided.
Hub cannot be used as a repeater.
Hub is not an intelligent device that sends message to all ports hence it is comparatively inexpensive.
Hub is simply old type of device and is not generally used.
Hacking of systems attached to hub is complex.
Speed of original hub 10Mbps and modern internet hub is 100Mbps.
Hubs are used in LANs.
Cheaper as compared to switch.


Switch

While switch is operated on Data link layer of OSI Model.
While switch is a Unicast, multicast and broadcast type transmission.
While switch can have 24 to 48 ports.
While in switch, different ports have own collision domain.
While switch is a full duplex transmission mode.
While in switch, Packet filtering is provided.
While switch can be used as a repeater.
While switch is an intelligent device that sends message to selected destination so it is expensive.
While switch is very sophisticated device and widely used.
Hacking of systems attached to switch is little easy.
Maximum speed is 10Mbps to 100Mbps.
Switch is used in LANs.
Expensive as compared to HUB.







Router 

The main objective of router is to connect various networks simultaneously.
It works in network layer.
Router is used by LAN as well as MAN.
Through the router, data is sent in the form of packets.
There is less collision taking place in the router.
Router is compatible with NAT.
Router is a relatively much more expensive device than switch.
maximum speed for wireless is 1-10 Mbps and maximum speed for wired connections is 100 Mbps.
Router needs at least two networks to connect. 
The types of routing are: Adaptive and Non-adaptive routing.


Switch

While the main objective of switch is to connect various devices simultaneously.
While it works in data link layer.
While switch is used by only LAN.
While through switch data is sent in the form of  frame.
While there is no collision taking place in full duplex switch.
While it is not compatible with NAT.
Switch is an expensive device than hub. but cheaper than router.
Maximum speed is 10Mbps to 100Mbps.
Switch needs at least single network is to connect.
The types of switching are: Circuit, Packet, and Message Switching.







